internal investigation by Israel's
military has acknowledged that its
troops failed to protect civilians
during hamas's October 7th Terror
attacks the inquiry detailed a slow and
disorganized response to the attack on
the beeri kabot one of the worst hit
communities that day Israel's defense
minister is calling for a state inquiry
into the attack and the government's
response security cameras capture the
moment Hamas Fighters surrounded kabot
ber their attack began early in the
morning on October
7th and ended with 101 residents
killed another 32 people taken
hostage the military has now admitted
the community waited hours for help to
arrive with forces waiting outside the
kots into the afternoon as residents
were being killed
the Israel Defense Forces failed in
their mission to protect the residents
of kibutz berry it is painful and
difficult for me to say this the IDF
should have defended the residents of
kibutz B but unfortunately we were not
there for long hours of fighting for
hours the residents of B defended their
families with their bodies alone in
front of the
terrorists the military admitted it was
prepared for the infiltration of
militants didn't have enough forces in
the area and said its fighting was
uncoordinated the investigation praised
The Bravery of the kibutz residents but
some still have questions the conclusion
of this
investigation this is what uh supposed
to Cal me down in the future but we
didn't get the answer why the Army
didn't come in a minute why we left
alone some conclusions but not like the
big picture conclusion and uh what could
have done differently and what they are
going to do on the next step how can we
feel secure
again Israel's defense minister yov
Gulland is now calling for a national
inquiry it's the probe needs to check me
Minister of Defense it needs to check
the prime minister and needs to check
the chief of staff and the head of the
shin human rights groups have previously
criticized Israeli Army investigations
saying they rarely result in
punishment Israel's fighting in Gaza in
response to the October 7th attacks has
killed 38,000 people according to Hamas
run Health authorities Israel is now
facing allegations of war crimes and
genocide in international
courts well I'm joined Now by Bing
sladin he's a journalist based in Tel
Aviv good evening to you B maybe we can
start by you telling us how remarkable
is it that the IDF has admitted its own
failings its own
mistakes well if the question is if
that's unusual then the answer is no
this is not the first investigation in
es like this has been done also after
the Yon kipur War when Egypt by then
attacked or surprisingly attacked um
Israel on that day and there has been
lot of failure and uh thef by then also
admitted their mistakes also after the
2006 war or military operation if we can
call it this way uh with hisbah there
has been also internal investigation and
conclusions that led to many U
punishments for the um senior commanders
in Israel and also the Prime Minister
was affected by this defense minister as
well so this is not the first time and
this has been expected it what has been
announced a couple of months ago there's
been some push back uh for it especially
by the political level for their own
reasons but this is not the first time
and uh this has been expected in Israel
yeah talk to me about the consequences
that this report could have particularly
for the Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu
well theoretically speaking uh he's not
affected by it this is an internal
investigation inside the IDF inside the
military and it is just for learning
from their mistakes and concluding what
they can do better in the future but
practically speaking while we're talking
about uh uh this investigation the uh
this is apparently bad news for the
Prime Minister and that's that's why
there has been some push back from his
office when it has been announced
because of the fact that when the
investigations start then it means that
we will at some point have more pressure
on the prime minister to open that state
inquiry that independent investigation
that will investigate him as well now
just a couple of hours ago and recent
poll uh 40% of isra 39 specifically has
said that he is the one to blame more
than anyone else in the uh political
level and also the military level for
the 7th of October attack and even 72%
of Israelis say that he should resign
either now or at some point in the
future so apparently this is of course
going to be uh considered bad news for
the Prime Minister our report that air
just before you and I began talking you
know highlighted the Barry Kuts what do
we know about the
survivors um from that kabut I mean how
are they doing today
well uh most of them of course evacuated
after the October 7th attack but from
the recent data uh that has been
announced uh six days ago so last week
by the knesset Apparently most of them
came back there is no specific number of
um the people that came back to their
homes in each kibuts but 43,000 of those
who who evacuated came back to their
homes apparently because of the um
relatively safe situation right now
we're not hearing any sirens in the in
the uh uh South excuse me and the
situation is different of course now but
uh in terms of how they are doing of
course they are seeking answers now uh
for their uh for the failure of the IDF
back then and also for the failure of
the political level so of course they
are devastated but they want to go back
to their lives and that's better
apparently for them than leaving their
homes to some hotels or motels anywhere
else in Israel
journalist Bing with the latest tonight
from Tel Aviv B we appreciate your
reporting tonight thank
you thank you